# Hosting a Markdown Resume on GitHub Pages
In this tutorial, we will make a resume with markdown and host this markdown resume on GitHub pages. This may sound like a lot of work, but markdown can be learned in under an hour, and we will only need a hand-full of tags to make a resume. In this tutorial, these will be the assumptions:  

| Assuming you have an beginner-intermediate knowledge of (Prerequisites) | Assuming you have no knowledge of |  
|---|---|  
| Git  |  Atom |  
| GitHub | Markdown |  

Now, on to the tutorial!

## Stage 1: Installing Atom
Now we are going to install atom for writing our markdown resume.
1. Go to the [Atom Website](https://atom.io/).
2. Download the installer for your computer.
3. Run Setup.  

Welcome to Atom!
Now that you have Atom installed you can start writing your markdown resume.

## Stage 2: Writing Markdown
In this section, I cannot write your resume, but I can give you general guidelines and a markdown guide.
1. Open a file in Atom and save it as _index.md_
  >**Note**: Files name must be _index.md_ for a later step.

2. Write your resume in _index.md_.
  >**Note**: You can copy an existing resume if you have one.  

  >**Learn Markdown**:
    * [Markdown Tutorial](https://www.markdowntutorial.com/) will walk you through each markdown tag with examples and practice problems.
    * [Daring Fireball](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/basics) is made by the creator of markdown, and goes into depth on the conversion that happens between markdown and HTML.
    * [Awesome Markdown](https://github.com/mundimark/awesome-markdown) is a compilation of resources for Markdown, if you want more markdown goodies, such as: "libraries, services, editors, tools, cheatsheets, etc.".

At this point, you should have a resume fully written in markdown. Now to put that resume on GitHub Pages.

## Stage 3: Using GitHub Pages
This stage will result in a hosted version of your resume online for free. All This will take is a git repository.
1. Create a folder named: _'Username'.github.io_.
2. Move _index.md_ into the _'Username'.github.io_ folder.
3. Go to [GitHub](https://github.com/).
4. Create a new repository with the name _'Username'.github.io_.
5. Initialize the _'Username'.github.io_ folder with Git using:  

```bash
  git init
  git remote add origin 'username'/'username'.github.io.git
  git add .
  git commit -m "initial commit."
  git push -u origin master
```

Now that you have a repository with the index.md file in it, you can go to _'Username'.github.io_ and see your hosted resume. It isn't pretty yet, that comes next.

## Stage 4: Styling Github Pages
After this stage, you will have a styled resume hosted on GitHub Pages. We will be taking the Cayman style and editing it to suit our needs.  
1. Download the [Cayman theme](https://pages-themes.github.io/cayman/).
2. Copy your _index.md_ into a backup folder.
3. Extract the contents of the .zip file into your _'Username'.github.io_ folder.
4. Copy back _index.md_ into the _'Username'.github.io_ folder, replacing the extracted _index.md_.
5. Go into the _layouts_ folder and edit _default.html_ to remove the blocks:
>**Note**: You can either delete or comment this code out.

```html
    <header class="page-header" role="banner">
       <h1 class="project-name">{{ page.title | default: site.title | default: site.github.repository_name }}</h1>
       <h2 class="project-tagline">{{ page.description | default: site.description | default: site.github.project_tagline }}</h2>
       {% if site.github.is_project_page %}
         <a href="{{ site.github.repository_url }}" class="btn">View on GitHub</a>
       {% endif %}
       {% if site.show_downloads %}
         <a href="{{ site.github.zip_url }}" class="btn">Download .zip</a>
         <a href="{{ site.github.tar_url }}" class="btn">Download .tar.gz</a>
       {% endif %}
     </header>
   ```
   ```html
   <span class="site-footer-credits">This page was generated by <a href="https://pages.github.com">GitHub Pages</a>.</span>
   ```
6. Open the _ _config.yml_ file and change the _title_ and _description_ to something more appropriate.  
7. Commit and push these changes.

Congratulation! you now have a styled and hosted resume on GitHub Pages. Go brag to all your friends.

## FAQ
  Q: Do I have to use Atom?   
  A: No, any code editor will work. I chose Atom for its markdown previewer.

  Q: Can I write my resume in HTML?  
  A: Yes, Simply name the _index.md_ file _index.html_ instead.

## Authors and Acknowledgments
Authored and maintained by [Luke Morrow](https://github.com/LukeBMorrow/) with help from _Thai Nguyen_ and _Dang Nguyen_  
[Cayman theme](https://github.com/pages-themes/cayman) is an open source project from GitHub.
___

##### Audience
>no Atom experience  
  no markdown experience  
  some GitHub experience  
  no Jekyll experience    
  _Venue_: README file within GitHub Pages  
  _Purpose_: Write a resume using Markdown, Format the resume with a Jekyll theme, and host resume (for free) on GitHub Pages  
  _Additional Purpose_: Increase experience and confidence in technical writing tools: Markdown, Jekyll and GitHub Pages  
  _Desired Reaction_: understand the creation of, and hopefully have, a hosted resume on GitHub.  
  _Vocabulary_: avoid jargonned terms related to atom, markdown, Jekyll, and Ruby. +++++  
  _Tone_: clear and objective  
